Replying to [comment:5 extempore]:
> It can't seem curt because you lack the necessary standing.  You don't think it's the least bit relevant that you have a bunch of unstated binary dependencies when you're reporting a bug which is easily explained by mismatched bytecode?

No, I don't.   I eliminated the dependencies as a possibility before I even bothered filing the ticket.  Removing the Math.abs call in *my* code eliminates the error.  Further, decompilation of the code in question confirms that scalac is actually generating the wrong bytecode in this case (again, as stated in the bug report).

And just so that you can't claim "unstated binary dependencies" anymore, the following is a list of the libraries affecting the section:

 * Specs 1.6.5-2.8.0-RC3
 * ScalaCheck 1.7-2.8.0-RC3
 * gll-combinators (Git snapshot, scala-2.8 branch)

Other libraries are on the classpath, but nothing that affects this section.


> Then maybe "most people" should take a hint about where the error most likely lies.  And also consider reevaluating the wisdom of claiming your time is more valuable than the time of the unpaid volunteers you are asking to solve your problems.

As I said, I eliminated your hint as a possibility before I even filed the ticket.  I'm not *entirely* lazy in self-debugging.  :-)

I'm not claiming my time is more valuable.  What I'm saying is two-fold:

First, most outstanding compiler bugs surface in non-trivial code and often aren't reproducible in minimal examples.  Closing tickets without even cursory evaluation is extremely disingenuous and hardly serves the best interest of the compiler itself.

Second, I don't file bugs so that you can help me solve my problems.  Tickets are a terrible place for such "help desk" discussions, and abusing them for such a purpose only wastes everyone's time.  I've been finding workarounds for subtle scalac bugs for the better part of three years; clearly I'm not dependent on you finding a fix for the problem.  I file bugs because I want to improve the quality of scalac.  I file bugs because I'm *assuming* that you want to hear about problems found in the wild.  In other words, this is for you, not for me.

I appreciate that you need more information.  I'm trying to accommodate you to the best of my ability, but shutting me down without a second thought only discourages me from posting such issues in the first place.
